This video we're going to discuss static routes.
I've been asked a number of times about to study grants.
Are you able for example to have a multiple study Grotz configured on a Rodda are you able to have multiple
default Rantz configured on a router.
Can you mix default Trotz and static Grotz what's the effect of all of the above.
In this example we can get to configure static routes on Rato one and to test connectivity to the loopback
of wrote a five we have a two router three and wrote a four in the typology and they configured with
different subnets rodder two is configured with IP address 10 1 1 2 on the interface Radi 3 is configured
with 10 1 to 2 on the interface and a Foy's configured was 10 1 3 2 on this interface or Lenk.
So you just wrote a one.
What are we going to test.
Is connectivity to the loopback of route of 5.
So from road a one is it able to ping the loopback of wrote a five.
So after the moment when not paying the loop back out of 5 we get timeouts.
The router is not able to ping the loopback wrote a 5 show IP router shows us the writing table.
What youll notice is that it only contains connected and local Roths there's no route to 5.5 to 5.5
de-bug IP packet.
As an example will show us what happens when the Rodda tryst paying that address so I'm going to ping
5.5.
And repeat it once and let's see what the output looks like.
Notice unrideable the rodded doesn't know where to rock the packets.
And again that's because there's no route to the destination.
There's also no gateway of last resort set on the Rodda.
So it has no way to get to this IP address.
We could configure a route as follows.
So an exact match on the route and pointed to a train that wandered 1 to 2 which is routed to show IP
right now shows us that route in the rotting table.
Second the router not paying the loopback of wrote a 5.
And the answer is yes it can.
I'm going to disable IP domain look up here to speed up trace route.
So let's trace to the loop back of route of 5.
Notice it's going via 10 1 1 2 which is routed to and then it gets to run a 5.
What happens if I configure a static route like this and pointed to two routers three which way will
the traffic go.
So let's have a look at the writing table.
Show IP wrocht shows us two entries in the writing table.
There are two ways to get to the loop back of route or five.
So if I trace to that loop back Notice it's still going via route to.
In other words it's going to 10 1 1 2.
And the reason for that is because this entry is more specific than the sentry rodders when deciding
where to run traffic.
Look at the longest match of a route this route is a 32 but match.
This is a 24 bit match.
So the traffic's going to go via train 1 1 to.
And we can prove that by doing a trace route if we remove this route from the writing table
and then do a trace again notice the trace route is going via 10 1 to 2 but that's because we only have
this route in the writing table.
If we created another static front like this
via route a full
which way with the traffic go so show IP route shows us the two entries we've got to slash 16 slash
24.
So when we trace to route a five notice it's going via Rodda three because this is a longer match.
That is a longer match than this.
So Rodda three is preferred rather than a full.
But again if we removed
that dropped from the writing table someone to remove the sentry
so remove the static ROFFT
Now when we look at the writing table we only have the sentry so traffic will go via 10 1 3 2.
In other words it's going to go via road for
if I add a more specific product of let's say slash 20 for
going via router three again
notice the traffic goes via Rotto three.
And if I use a more specific route such as this
going via a router to rather
notice the traffic goes viral it to show IP route to shows us those routes they slashed 28 to rot is
more specific than a slash 24 route which is more specific than a slash 16 raht.
So remember with static routes and this applies to other routing protocols as well more specific matches
when.
So what happens if we add a route like this
same mosque as rodded to configure it to go to rodders 3.
So show IP route.
Notice the difference in the writing table now weve got two entries for the same route.
So when we trace to the loop back now notice its doing load balancing traffic is load balancing across
both parts and thats because weve got two equal entries in the running table.
Its a show run include Robert
these two rats are going to be used for load balancing because they are the most specific and they are
the same length.
These two will be ignored.
But if we copy that and add an entry
going to 10 1 3 2 2 Rotto for the writing table shows us three entries.
Now if we trace to the loop back.
Now notice its going to load balance across those three routes.
You need to be careful with this because sometimes depending on the router the load balancing may actually
not be true but for CCMA level we assume that it load balances as follows.
So show run pipe include dropped things to remember most specific entries when if there are multiple
entries with the same rot and same mosque such as these three the ratable load balance across those
paths equally.
So in other words equal cost load balancing all load sharing enjoyed this video if it was a benefit
to you please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.